I'm one third of a group called Terra
zero and I'm here today to present a
project of ours that yep launched on
Monday which is called flower tokens
which is a the kind of bizarre looking
like web interface with a lot of flowers
out there but before I dive into flower
tokens I kind of want to starve by
contextualizing that within the history
of Terra zero is like a broader project
because as a project is it's also but
maybe a little bit messy in terms of
name recognition and then I'll kind of
like walk through aspects of the flower
tokens projects kind of in meshing like
the technical and the conceptual like
areas of interest that we were kind of
working with each stage so Terra zero
basically began two and a half almost
three years ago as just purely like an
art piece or a concept piece which was
kind of exploring the implications of
using blockchain technology in our case
ethereum to kind of create or the
possibility of creating like a cell
phone in autonomously managing piece of
land so it was kind of an entity which
is like an Augmented or like hybrid
ecosystem entity which was made up of a
forest which is pictures here with our
kind of like flag which has now become
an emblem by accident and a
decentralized autonomous organization
which is also referred to as a Dao so
for those who don't I'll briefly explain
what a Dao is without going like mad
technical because I could just talk
about this for half an hour but it's a
very fluid term it's basically just an
organization or some kind of
organizational structure that is
instantiated on a blockchain and is
constituted of smart contracts which
were kind of briefly talked about before
and these in essence are computer
programs there are also instances on
blockchain but what is really
interesting about them and which is why
there's so much potential both in in
kind of like every sphere like technical
and also like real kind of conceptual
boundaries I think you can push is the
smart contracts these
basically just like very simple computer
programs can actually hold their own
cryptocurrency wallet and they can self
execute whatever their functions are
whatever their code allows them to do on
the occurrence of a certain event of a
certain state so that could be if
obviously if a human interacts with them
but more interestingly that could be if
another small contract interaction boom
and so downs which are made up of small
contracts can also like hold
cryptocurrency and like self execute
which is acting in a more real sense
with like a certain degree of autonomy
admittedly within like functional preset
parameters but you know the
possibilities if you start envisaging
having like meshes of these interacting
with each other you start getting really
interesting like emergent forms of
behavior and so in the scenario that the
original kind of concept be sketched out
the legal ownership of the forest like
the other physical side of this hyper
identity was actually transferred to the
dao itself much in the same way that
like corporations are currently able to
act as legal persons in certain regards
like owned property and then this Dao
basically mediated all of the potential
into economic interactions that was had
between the physical forest and human
beings who would pay the Dow to chop
down certain trees that the Dow using
sensors basically deemed necessary time
removed in order to maintain a healthy
ecosystem so it was this kind of you
know somewhat more backwards way than
maybe traditional like environmental
conservation it was like resilience
through active pruning and active
technological integration into an
ecosystem and then basically the Dow use
this capital so like pay off the
original landowners which I was
hypothetically in this instance us and
then basically owned itself after he
paid off his debt so then we kind of
ended this concept piece with a kind of
a technologically augmented ecosystem
that via bow chain technology was able
to become like a self sovereign
autonomous
like unit and over the course of last
couple years it's Tara's zero is now the
name that we've stuck with and has
transformed into kind of a group of
artists developers there as researchers
basically all exploring the creation of
these kind of hybrid ecosystems in we
kind of stick with the template techno
sphere there's also a certain amount to
which we kind of go off benjamin brands
idea of like the stack and we're
basically envisaging trying to break
down or trying to make visible how this
breakdown between kind of the human
world and the natural world actually
just doesn't really make any sense
because we've kind of pushed ourselves
to every corner of it anyway
and in the last couple of months we've
been developing a strategy to push the
ideas and the thoughts which kind of
originated from the first idea of terra
zero into into other areas and we're
starting to do this by kind of like
create the building blocks of what these
future dows would look like and we're
doing this by a kind of smaller projects
and technical experiments much like
flower tokens so these are some of the
kind of questions that we have to ask
ourselves in a very technical sense and
each of these experiments which kind of
sit somewhere in between the art world
and like the kind of more technical MVP
world tries to kind of focus at wrist to
answer on one of them and then over the
next kind of year it's a couple of years
we're gonna start building on that
hopefully more so you know in the first
case what does what does verification of
information actually look like when
you're talking about a natural asset
like a flower in a decentralized way
what are the legal questions concerning
the autonomy of these like hybrid
systems
so actually luckily the multis digital
innovation authority actually and
one of these questions for us about in
June and said that Dow actually is a
technical arrangement so basically act
like a limited company which is the
original concept that we actually stuck
with in the first concept paper which
was a nice kind of like mixing of fates
but basically what this means is that
now you could have a decentralized
autonomous organization own land
anywhere in the European Union and act
as a company with legal backing to this
which obviously is incredible but then
the question that you have to ask is how
can we have dowels gain this kind of
status without the legal gatekeeping of
the Maltese digital innovation authority
and the final kind of like main aspect
that we're focusing on which is what I'm
going to be more intensely kind of
unpacking in this talk is what does the
tokenization of natural like growing
changing things actually look like block
chains as much potential as they have
are fundamentally very static and quite
mmm kind of labor intensive so working
out how you can actually set up a
meaningful and an interaction that
actually has a point as opposed to just
pushing data into a bot chain is one of
the big questions that we kind of have
to start looking at how to try and solve
and basically we think that by trying to
address these issues and also try and
make them more accessible and more
visible which is something that we're
also doing with these experiments
they're important to address because
they basically serve as the foundation
for like further discussion open
discourse is about these kind of tack
but also like providing in and of
themselves a really valuable source of
information for the kind of areas of
experimentation that two years ago were
completely hypothetical and solving
these issues that kind of give us a
chance to start building structures or
like building organizational structures
that would give us the opportunity of
be thinking kind of existing and pre
ineffective governance and regulatory
structures that we could use to kind of
start creating a more sustainable and
resilient ecosystem so this is the user
interface of flower tokens like I said
it's an experiment centered around the
last of those three points so the
process of tokenizing and like to a
certain extent verifying information
about a natural asset as well as
exploring what binding data or like the
binding of a token sitting on a
blockchain and a natural asset actually
achieves so you know what kind of entity
are we actually discussing here is it a
meaningful relation but also what
scenarios arise in the case that we
created in a web marketplace as well
where you monetize it Berry was joking
about dropping the price to 10 e but
there are tokens I've already sold for
like 1/8 which is madness and to make a
bit of a crypto joke where we get flower
wails turn it up so we created a web
marketplace basically where users can
buy trade and speculate on tokenize
dahlias so the physical installation
that you're seeing here consists of a
grow rack with a watering system 100
dollars and a camera which we're kind of
using as our Oracle and this camera
provides the pictures for the web
interface that we're seeing here so
we're seeing kind of like the camera eye
view and also the information about each
flower and each of these dahlias is
linked to an EOC 7:21 token on the
etherion main net a brief aside like
when people usually talk about tokens
these things are like fungible assets
that divisible basically to 18 yeah 18
points and any OC 20 token is basically
the same as another much like a dollar
is the same as another dollar
but the 7:21 token standard is a non
fungible token so it can't be split into
smaller denominations and each token in
and of itself is kind of a unique non
divisible thing nor are they an equal
replacement for one another
they're completely unique much like
natural assets are and so obviously the
next step once this it happened was okay
if we have non fungible tokens and we
have non printable assets then we have
to kind of combine them and see what
happens so basically as was already
mentioned if the owner of a flower
wishes to take that flower out of the
experiment the token is burnt so it's
kind of removed from the system as the
token as the flower is removed from the
physical installation so we're trying to
really keep this kind of like data
consistency like some semblance of data
consistency and as was mentioned before
to the best of our knowledge this is the
first insulation of the crypto
collectible most likely coats okay
involving a real world or a physical
asset and if we push in the bow out we
could even kind of conceptually label
flower tokens as maybe the prototype of
a new form of like libbing crypto tokens
but whether that stands up only time
will tell so a point about the flowers
themselves as well because this joke has
kind of been made already at first we
actually wanted to use tulips and yeah
thanks but after her kind of iterating
through a couple of test plants with the
set up we decided that dahlias partially
because dahlias actually really fit the
conditions that were operating under and
chips are a nightmare to grow inside and
partially because as funny as it was we
didn't really want to like accidentally
affirm this mistaken analogy between
tulip mania and like massive crypto hype
and yeah it could have just been taken
really out of context so yeah we still
got dahlias so what are the issues that
we're trying to unpack and make visible
and kind of gistic like work out during
this experiment
because even if the system in its own
right works is like a tiny little
experimental micro economy in like
technical and economic terms mainly the
project functions are this kind of a
visualization of certain mechanisms so
it demonstrates what's possible with
this kind of tokenization process but
also it was not which kind of is more
important and the question that we're
really focused on here is like how can
we ensure that this token stays
truthfully linked to the changing
conditions of an asset
obviously the link between a physical
thing and a token already is like pretty
tenuous and requires like a certain
emplacement of like abstract value on
top of that relation for it to mean
anything so it has how do we like keep
it updated so as to hopefully like boil
up this link between the two things so
in practical terms we can see what this
means right here so this is all the data
about a particular plant in this case
this is token 18 or the flower that
makes up the part of the kind of hybrid
entity that I'm talking about it's
difficult so I talked about with any
like certainty on this model and just a
quick note as well like the box around
it it's just like my edit for the
presentation it's not part of our UI
just till they make that completely
clear no so in the top just under token
18 in the top left where the white box
is because I wanted to keep the owner
anonymous this is the data that we kind
of have on chain so we see the owner and
we see their address and at the bottom
we can also see how much that was bought
for and this isn't like particularly
interesting this is just normal data
that you would get on a block Explorer
so what's more important to look at is
the data that's actually originating off
chain and so it's being pushed into the
blockchain and this is the data about
the physical characteristics of the
flower itself so its height whether it's
blooming what rate is growing and this
data link between a token and the living
thing is interesting from a technical
perspective you know aside from the
aspects about creating a living token
but it's also really interesting from an
economic perspective so it's really only
on in the project like
we launched on Monday so we haven't
started noticing any massive kind of
patterns or correlations yet between the
physical aspects and the ascribes
economic value in this little
marketplace apart from the fact that the
flowers that sold first were those that
bigger had a few more leaves however on
the night of the launch we had a flower
that was resold by someone else with one
eath which is like 360 ish euros that's
like four hundred dollars and just a
completely buck the tiny or trend we'd
already noticed this flower was my new
so that didn't necessarily work as well
and it's quite a nice visualization of
asking what sort of abstract values are
actually being attributed to these
flowers and whether or not this is
actually related to like functional
value and that's gonna be quite
interesting to watch as the process goes
on like the the project's gonna run for
four or five months because dahlias a
perennial they'll die off again but the
kind of the roots will remain alive so
anyone who doesn't want to claim it
we're gonna plant them in a park in
Berlin and then they can bloom next year
and if any of you are particularly
interested in terms of like scraping
data from this Marcus Jones who was a
data scientist ocean protocol has
actually made a really nice repository
which generates starts about the project
by scraping hash base which is where
we're keeping all of the information
about the so Keynes and the day after
the launch and for those who use Twitter
quite regularly there's a flower token
bot which tweets about which flowers are
available for which price and this isn't
actually ours we have no idea who made
it it just appeared and got linked into
our slack so if anyone finds out as well
that would be nice to know so going back
to the source of this link day at the
Oracle that I discussed before the
source of the information updates the
tokens and kind of retains this link
between the physical plant and the token
that represents it in each case it's
just an acetal camera that we've hooked
up on the wall so it takes a camera it
takes a photo every
13 minutes and it's triggered by an
on-site computer and then this computer
processes through crops and resizes the
image and then pushes it onto the web
interface and what also happens is this
local server that is pushed to also
analyzes the captured images so we're
using something called plan TV which is
a kind of fork of OpenCV which is just
to do with plants as the name suggests
to analyze and kind of extract certain
values from these pictures so like
height and the pixel width of different
areas of color of the color spectrum and
then this allows us to they're not
calculate like the growing rate and see
how tall that is and see if a flower is
blooming so here are just a couple of
kind of print screens from that process
so you can have a look and then the data
is stored as metadata so the actual
token is themselves on the blockchain
have a string which is basically a URL
referring to adapt repo and that for
those of these don't know is a really
nice distributed storage solution that's
a really interesting piece of like the
con newly emergent peer-to-peer web
that's also coming back in vogue like as
the blockchain hype is kind of dying
away or going into more practical areas
and so this stuff right here basically
the all the information about the flower
is just stored as JSON data passed
around whoever is hosting the actual
dart files themselves and it's also
located at trust which is the co-working
space in Berlin and if anyone's around
in Berlin and wants to like visit
they're more than welcome and they can
also come and collect our plant but
email those first and basically yeah the
project's intended to end with like the
decay of the flowers but since this time
spam varies quite a lot depending on all
the kind of general conditions it could
actually take longer and or until the
people who run trust want us to get rid
of it and then we'll see
so before we kind of wrap up I also want
to highlight that this was a project
that involved a lot of work from a lot
of people and it was like a properly
collaborative effort so yeah I just want
to thank Georgia and Louis for do it
like doing the miracle on our front and
that I ruined with putting that little
purple box around it for my presentation
as well as Gregor Arthur who's hosting
as a trust Billy ran camp who did a lot
of checking of our smile contracts and
found a couple of bugs before we
launched which is great as well as
Johannes and Andy who kind of worked on
the new website with us and kind of
using that stanking or like the
highlighting the fact that this was a
collaborative effort I want to kind of
segue into like my last more general
point about our process as kind of a
loose research group and our method is
really based on the idea that any kind
of constructive approach with within
this quite murky our UNTAC kind of
mixture it's really much dependent or
like how you can construct those feature
scenarios it's really dependent on the
different narratives of the future that
you actually see as being potentially
realizable right and how potential how
potentially realizable something is kind
of realizing your knowledge of the
scenarios related to them and so if I
are taking a kind of iterative
experimental approach apart from the
fact that it just works in terms of time
and our lack of budget it allows us
basically to to kind of constantly
update and constantly change these
narratives as you're iteratively
creating kind of like micro environments
and experiments and obviously another
aspect of this is the more people that
you have involved in these processes the
more narratives and the more
perspectives and hopefully the more
specialization with regards to like what
potential scenarios are linked to these
future narratives
ah which is why the kind of
collaborative effort of flower tokens
and Terra ZOA in general is something
that I wanted to kind of finish by
highlighting and as is up on the screen
we have a couple of avenues of community
building
I actually left a telegram group off
this as well but if you want to get in
touch in any way in kind of any which
way shape or form code reach out
community just walk us an email join us
luck and yeah thanks for having me
[Applause]